Among all, [Lakshmiji’s understanding is superior, because she perceived God as without faults.] However, she still considered herself as a woman. Therefore, Uddhavji’s understanding is greater because he was wise (gnāni) and perceived God as innocent. However, [he had difficulty leaving his home.] Ultimately, Jadbharat’s and Shukji’s understanding is the best because [they are aloof of the distinction of male and female.](1/36) @1. Among the chief queens of Krishna Bhagwan, Rukmini was the avatār of Lakshmiji. She understood Krishna as God. The other queens would take offense and would have to be pleased. Rukmini, on the other hand, perceived all actions of Krishna as innocent. When Krishna was being weighed on a balance, Satyabhāmā placed gold, yet the gold could not equal the weight of Krishna. Rukmini placed flowers on the scale and the scale lifted up because of her love. Nevertheless, Vyās Bhagwan has revealed Lakshmiji’s understanding. When Krishna abducted her (with her consent), her brother Rukmi chased Krishna to kill him. Krishna and Rukmi fought and Krishna raised his sword to sever his head. Rukmini pleaded with Krishna and said, “He is my brother. Do not kill him. I beseech you, O Lord of all.” Krishna told her to let go of her false attachment, yet she pleaded not to punish him with death. Therefore, Krishna shaved his head and mustache and let him go. Swami says Rukmini considered herself as a woman, implying that she did not possess firm ātma-nishthā, for the ātmā is neither male nor female. (Shrimad Bhagwat: 10/52-53)$2. In Mathurā, Krishna Bhagwan blessed Kubjā’s home. Uddhavji was with Krishna and Krishna asked him to stay at the door to guard the home. Uddhavji had no doubts of Krishna being alone in a house with a woman. Uddhavji had the knowledge that Krishna is God who is forever innocent in all his actions. Nevertheless, when Krishna’s purpose of incarnating on the earth ended and he was determined to return to his abode, he said to Uddhavji, “Now, Dvarika will drown in the ocean. Therefore, renounce your home and worship me.” Krishna gave this order several times, yet he could not accept these words and had difficulty renouncing his home till the end. After Krishna gave him the knowledge mentioned in the Bhagwat (Skandh 11, Adhyay 7-29), then he prepared to go to Badrikashram.$3. In this third example, Swami says Jadbharat’s and Shukji’s understanding is greater than Rukmini’s and Uddhavji’s understanding. The reason is that they understood the nature of the world thoroughly (and developed detachment from it) and developed love for God. Rushabhdev Bhagwan’s son Bharatji renounced the rule of the whole earth and left for the forest to worship God. However, he became attached to a deer and strayed from his devotion to God. He died with the deer in his mind and became a deer in his next life. He retained knowledge of his past life and committed suicide. He was reborn as Jadbharat. He behaved as a foolish man so that he does not become bound to anyone by love. Once, some tribal people captured him to sacrifice his body to their deity. One tribal man was ready to cut his head off, yet Jadbharat stood there fearlessly because he believed his self to be the ātmā. Bhadrakāli Devi appeared and killed the tribe to save Jadbharat.Shukdevji had no distinction of male or female. Once, heavenly maidens were bathing in a lake. Shukji passed by but the women did not put their clothes on. Vyasji passed by later and the women put their clothes on. Vyasji asked them the reason. They said, “Tavāsti stripumbhidā na tu sutasya viviktadraṣhṭehe.”(You have the perception of male and female but Shukji does not.)