[A person bought wisdom for 100,000 rupees.] Similarly, wisdom of the many ways for moksha can be learnt from the God-realized Sadhu.$Glory of the Sadhu (30.6) / (1/27)@ 1. A prince and a minister’s son, who were friends, left for another village. On the way they spent the night in a jungle. Both were hungry in the morning. The prince told his friend to get some food from the nearby town. The minister’s son went to the town but the gates of the town were closed. It so happened that the town’s king had died, childless. The subjects had decided that whoever entered first on opening the gates of the town should be made the king. When the gates opened, the minister’s son entered first and thus he was proclaimed king.Meanwhile, the prince who was tired of the long wait, set out in search of his friend. He came to the town where he read a board in a shop front, ‘For Sale – Intellect.’ Out of curiosity, he entered the shop and asked the price of intellect. The shop owner replied, “It ranges from one rupee to one hundred thousand rupees.” The prince then gave a jewelled ring valued at one hundred thousand rupees and asked for wisdom (intellect). “One should bow even to one’s junior in case he is raised to a position of power.” The shop owner wrote this on a piece of paper and handed it over to the prince. The prince learnt the wise statement by heart and continued his search.A king’s procession was passing by so he stood aside. When the procession came near, the prince saw that the king sitting on the elephant was none other than his friend, the minister’s son. At first he felt angry with him, but on remembering the words on the note, he bowed down and saluted the new king.The minister’s son noted that his friend was paying obeisance to him. On returning to the royal palace he summoned the court and declared to the assembly, “Now that I am the king, I can act according to my wishes.” So, he called for his friend, the prince, and handed over the royal throne to him. The prince was thus counselled at the cost of one hundred thousand rupees and acquired the royal throne. Similarly, from the holy Sadhu we gain the wisdom by which moksha can be attained. For this, we should keep close contact of a God-realized Sadhu. Then only can we succeed in attaining the divine abode, just as the prince succeeded in getting the kingdom.